---
layout: blog
tags: post
title: What I learned on 10.07.19
date: 2019-07-10T12:45:13.625Z
thumbnail: /img/uploads/fbvp_udf_400x400.jpg
---

## Today I made a simple static website using 11ty.

Eleventy is a static site generator that prides itself on its simplicity and flexibility.

What it does is basically the following.
You give it a bunch of files in a language that it supports ( of which there are many ! ), like markdown for example. It compiles it to HTML and puts it in a \_site folder.

From there, one can just put that folder onto a webserver and voala! A website is born.

Why would anybody bother with such a tool though?
One word - **simplicity**

But lets be more specific.
It's not any simpler to build a site using eleventy compared to wordpress for example.
I could easily create a wordpress website without writing a line of code.
What 11ty brings instead is simplicity in terms of its technical implementation.

There's just less to it.
All of the metadata associated with a given page is written by you, and placed on top of the file in the form of YAML Front Matter like so:

## `

layout: blog.njk
tags: post
title: the title of the first post

---

`

With that simplicity come other benefits.
The sites created do not require a backend.
Therefore they can be hosted anywhere.

For my first attempt, I used Netlify.
It's a service that offers static hosting and deployment on a global CDN, along with CI/CD integration, serverless functions, authentication and other features, a lot of which for free.

Integrating with netlify was a breeze.
You make a registration, point it to the repo, and it just works.

for reference, here's the repo I'm referring to
https://github.com/KamenKolev/11ty-netlify.git

EDIT:
Also, I just found out about GitHub badges.
They're basically updating SVG's included in Readme's that make repos look better.

Here's a link to a (post on freecodecamp)[https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-use-badges-to-stop-feeling-like-a-noob-d4e6600d37d2/] that explains them pretty well.
And also to (shields.io)[https://shields.io/#/]
